I believe we have Nicole Anderson and Brian here.
It's fresh.
Thank you so much, and we have half an hour with you.
So once you're ready, you can start with some opening remarks, and then there will
be questions from members. Thank you.
Thank you.
Lovely. Well, kia ora everyone. Thank you for having us.
I guess we're probably ready to start rolling.
Great.
Yeah.
Okay.
Kia ora kōrua.
Welcome to the committee, and thank you for joining us today and making time in
person.
Sorry, is that a question?
Yes.
Oh, sorry. Hold on. They don't want to-
You don't have any opening remarks, did you say?
Oh, would you like us to open with some remarks? We possibly could do that.
She's almost done.
I don't have mine.
Yeah, if you could do that, that would be great. Thank you.
And if members could-
No worries
... kindly put your questions through the Chair, that would be really helpful.
Yeah, I was really happy to hand over straight away
for questions, but appreciate you-
I was also know-
... offering the opportunity. Yeah.
Okay. Do you have some remarks, it's a-
I think we could probably
fairly comfortably go straight to questions.
Okay, that's fine.
He doesn't want to hear, but sure.
Okay.
All right, so we have first question, Irina, would you-
Yeah.
Thank you.
I think the committee's really interested in your work around
working with schools.
That's something that was highlighted in your annual report, in
the work program,
to do with testing for asbestos and other contaminants that young people
are exposed to in those environments. It's also a really public function.
Something that would be helpful if you could reflect on how government
gets value from that as well as public value.
Can you tell us about what's been spent on that work, what kind of value
you're seeing, and whether there's an opportunity this financial year to
continue and grow that?
It's a fantastic question, and Brian will certainly be able to give you detail.
Yeah.
So what has been spent on that has been
time to date. So working with the Ministry of Education
to give them an understanding of
how accreditation would benefit
the asbestos inspection within the schools.
There's a curious situation in our regulations where
testing of asbestos
must be done in accredited labs, but the inspection of
asbestos and surveying doesn't require accreditation.
So the asbestos can be pulled out and then
run through an accredited lab, and it looks great.
But it's not because you need to go through
a well-defined process to do the inspection, and not everyone follows
those kind of processes properly.
And it's kind of a rubbish in, rubbish out type situation.
So what this is now doing is, in the absence
of the regulation for the inspection process to be
accredited,
MOE has kind of created a form of functional regulation, if you like.
So people who tender for that work need to
be accredited or on a pathway to accreditation, recognizing it
takes a little while to get accredited and that could delay
things even more. So
the value that we provide is ensuring that the
organizations that are doing that inspection work are
competent.
Mm-hmm.
And so because I'm not sure how familiar you are with the accreditation
process, but it's cyclical. We visit these
organizations on a routine basis.
We take technical experts with us, and many of our people are actually technical
ex- our assessors are technical experts.
And so they're not just ticking off a compliance sheet, they're actually looking at
people doing what they do, making sure they're doing it properly.
Making sure they have the right quality management systems, they have the right
kind of equipment, they've calibrated, et cetera.
So they're looking at organizations as a system
and making sure that that system is producing a quality
outcome. And whereas in the past, we have
accredited people for inspection because they've recognized the value,
but that's been a race to the bottom really in terms of price.
Mm-hmm.
So the organizations that we had accredited gradually gave up their
accreditation to save that overhead so they could compete
with other organizations-
Yeah, that makes sense
... that weren't accredited.
Just to follow up on that.
Mm-hmm.
So, how do we ensure then that the cost for
accreditation is being borne in the right part of the system?
If you've got these operators who are working with schools, they're probably small
operators, many of them regional.
Do you have enough scope to design the accreditation system which
would obviously protect consumer safety, so the parents and the
kids at the-
Yeah
... school, but also then the people who are working with the hazardous
materials. Are we getting that balance right now in the
system, the rails that you've got to run on?
I believe so. So this isn't our only inspection program.
We have inspection programs across a
wide variety of regulatory activities.
And not all of our accreditation is required by regulators either.
Some of it is entirely voluntary by the organizations that we work with.
So
in terms of the balance of cost, the cost varies according
to the size of the organization and the scope of their accreditation.
In other words, how many different things they're being accredited for.
So generally, an asbestos inspection organization, which is generally fairly
small and has a fairly limited scope-It's the accreditation is
a much lower cost than it is for a
large medical testing laboratory or-
Mm-hmm
... or something of that nature. So the cost does scale.
Another thing that we have done is we have recently introduced something that we
call Te Parua recognition, which is like accreditation light,
and we differentiate it very carefully, it has its own website and so
forth, from our accreditation activities because they are internationally
recognized, and we can't kind of get the two confused.
But what it does is provide an even less expensive model because it
requires, while we still have onsite evaluation,
it does involve more self-evaluation
during the accreditation life cycle, which is generally four years.
Can I just a final-
Supplement, yeah.
Just to,
thinking about the costly cleanups in the last financial year for
schools with asbestos contaminated sand. Different issue.
Should we have a system-
Yeah
... where there is accreditation for the cleanup of
products like that, or do you envision a way to speed
up a process which, same industry that you're working with, but a different
aspect of what they are doing in the same environment and stuff?
So all of that is possible and it comes down to,
I guess, is there a problem that needs to be solved with the cleanup?
First and most, I guess, the starting point is the inspection and
identifying what needs to be cleaned up.
And then having some kind of oversight of that cleanup process
that might be an accredited organization or it might not need to be an
accredited organization depending on what the
various stakeholders regard as appropriate.
Mm-hmm.
We stand poised to accredit, but we
recognize that accreditation isn't always
necessary, and we would be the first to say
that there is another way of doing this if it wasn't necessary.
Mm-hmm. A supplementary from Dr. Hemesh Gambhir.
Yeah, and actually that feeds probably smack bang into my supplementary question.
How do you measure whether accreditation is actually needed?
And I appreciate you've got an accreditation light kind of scheme because we've
talked a lot about cost, but what about actually value?
Well, if you think health and safety is
important and it... Well, sorry, it's
not meant to
imply anything, but
I think we all regard health and safety as important.
So if you want to be sure that organizations are
acting competently, one way that you can exercise assurance is
through the accreditation process.
So we work with WorkSafe over their pressure equipment,
cranes and passenger ropeways, the so-called PEPPA regulations, and
we provide the assessment of competence.
Otherwise it would be a compliance driven
process rather than a risk management and outcome driven process
that accreditation is. But in terms of
whether accreditation is the right tool for the job, that's really down
to the organization that wants to make the decision
about how important that assessment of competence is to
them.
Exactly.
Or if there is a
clear reason for doing it. So in other words, for
example, there are industry issues that are
arising and we're probably familiar with the education
issues that were in the media and so forth.
They were looking for an answer to stop that from happening.
One of the comments from education was actually the cost of
an error by an inspection organization was
hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Yeah.
So for that organization that was then
complaining about the thousands of dollars it was going to cost to get them
initially accredited.
Mm-hmm.
The initial process is more expensive than the ongoing process.
Then it was-
It would've saved money.
Yeah. They would've saved a
lot of money.
Excuse me, that's very embarrassing.
Um-
And the water would be another example, water testing of course.
Yeah. Water testing. So
all water testing, drinking water testing is the
laboratories that assess that are accredited laboratories.
Mm-hmm.
That's a requirement by Taumata Arowai.
But actually water supply inspection does
not need to be accredited. It used to be.
But,
so we are the ambulance at the bottom of the cliff for water
testing.
And we would like to also be the safety net at the top of the cliff for that as
well.
That's another thing.
Good. New primary from Dr. Vanessa Bennie.
Thank you. And, you were talking about health and safety, which is good.
That's
my area of questioning really. So in the 2024
cycle, you didn't meet one of your performance targets
around new areas for
models of
health and safety-
Mm-hmm
... certification. And, I just wonder
what you're doing about that for the
2025/26. And also,
we're doing through another committee, the Health and Safety
bill is going through. And I just wonder, has there been any effect
of the
fact that we're making some changes on the process for you?
In terms of the health and safety?
Yeah. Because we're doing that, has that in any way
held up the
new models going through? Because there may be some uncertainty about what's
required.
No, I haven't seen-
Okay
... any impact of changes to the
act holding up any new activities.
It's really down to the regulatory agencies
themselves and their appetite for taking on board accreditation.
Mm-hmm.
From our perspective, we streamline regulations.
We provide a scalable solution to regulatory
activities.
Yeah.
We move cost out of government agencies, and
potentially inspection and so forth, out of government agencies and into
industry, where we would argue it belongs, and
we produce a better outcome. So we
keep pushing hard at those messages, but
regulators tend to have their own toolboxes, and
it can be pretty hard to convince agencies that there's a different
way and a better way of doing it.
Mm-hmm.
There was the other part of your question, I'm sorry.
You started off, it was-
There. It was about what you're, I think you're starting to-
Oh, our measures
Yeah.
Yeah. So our measures, one of the things that we've tried, because we're very
operational. That's what we do. We deliver accreditation services by IANZ,
we deliver certification services by TALRSC, and we deliver training services
focused on upskilling the organizations that we work with.
Mm-hmm.
So it's very operational, and
so the easiest way to measure what we do is in
just outputs.
Yeah.
How many people we've trained, how many accreditations, how many certifications,
and so forth.
But that's not really
the message, and it doesn't really convey our values.
So we try and make our performance measures more outcome
focused.
Mm-hmm.
But that's actually quite difficult to do.
You can spend a lot on economists doing economic-
Yeah
... impact studies and surveys, doing client surveys, which we do.
We do both of those things.
But in the end, we have to try and link the numbers
of things that we do to outcomes, and that's where it gets tricky.
So if we say that, "Well, we're going to increase health and safety in New Zealand
by having all these new programs," that's great,
and we can work really hard to do that.
But it requires
other organizations to pick up what we're
doing and recognize the value and say, "Yes, we want you to do that, and we want
you to set up this new program for us." So we are doing that.
For example, a current example is with DOC.
Mm-hmm.
They had an issue with concessionaires that work on what they call
concessionaires, organizations that work on
their estate.
And so they were concerned that the oversight, the organizations that were
essentially certificating them or assessing them
may or may not be competent. So we've set up a program
for them to assess the competence of these organizations because
DOC is a PCBU-
Mm-hmm
...
in relation to these concessionaires, so they have a shared
responsibility for health and safety with the concessionaires.
So we give them the assurance that they are
doing all that's reasonably practicable to ensure that the
concessionaires are acting in a way that is
consistent with
health and safety requirements.
Can I just hop on? Supplementary, yep. Yeah.
What do you
need to do, do you think, to- Mm-hmm ...
increase awareness around the importance of the work you do?
Or is it
that you
rely on the responses of other organizations rather
than you needing to be able to explain or, in some ways,
advertise what you do?
So we do.
We're
increasing the amount of marketing we're doing.
Mm-hmm.
The clearest message from our clients and our client surveys
is they want us to communicate the value of
accreditation to their clients and their would-be clients,
and which we support entirely. But
the same issue is there that is for communicating with
regulators and others who might want
more of what we do because
there's a cost to doing that.
Mm-hmm.
And we're very operational, operate on cost recovery, and so we
really have to manage those cost pressures and-
Yeah
... our funds entirely come from the revenue from our clients.
So the more of that
other work that we do, that's still important-
Mm
... the more we have to charge those clients. So it's quite difficult.
So we're all multi-hatted.
And
my team and I all do things that
are well off our job descriptions because we just recognize someone has to
do them, and we can't keep hiring people to do these things.
And you've definitely increased your engagement just with-
Yeah
... different ministries and-
... agencies-
Yeah
... at a high level.
Yeah.
Just building those-
Yeah
... relationships, so-
So I-
... definitely helping.
Yeah. I plod the pavements of Wellington quite regularly.
And I fight hard to get meetings with people.
I have an EA who's very good at sweet-talking other EAs
to get me meetings- ... that I can't get by approaching the people directly, so-
Yeah. Because there are a lot of people with that same setup. Yeah.
So it's-
Ministerial staff
... yeah, it's
hard work, but
it's a process and of course, people are moving in and out of seats
too. So-
Yeah
...
people I
think I'm starting to make progress with-
Mm
... and then they've moved on, and then it's time to start again.
Mm-hmm. Good work. Thank you.
A quick supplementary on that one.
So with your fee, how do you decide when you are going to increase it, and how
does it work? In the year that we are reviewing, are there
any review to that?
That's a really good question.
This is a value proposition piece that we've been working on for a wee
while as a board, and there's
going to be a little bit more work to do on it, I think.
But in terms of fee increases, it's around demonstrating that value,
isn't it? Because we can't just keep increasing fees-
Yes.
Forever and ever, I mean. So.
So we're doing a lot to improve our efficiencies, and a big
piece of work for us is our digital transformation work.
We've just down selected to two vendors now, and we had a very exciting session.
I had to leave to go to the airport at the end of it.
I'm as focused on this as my whole team is focused on
this. Most of the organization is focused on this because our IT systems are
out of date and an embarrassment, actually, when we're speaking with our clients.
Mm.
And so the efficiencies that that will create
are significant. We also look at every possible way we can
create efficiencies, and a lot of that is by having people multi-hatted.
But it's also
trying to automate and to improve scheduling.
We have done a huge amount of work over the
last five years or so with our people,
developing
leadership, particularly at the team leader level, but also at senior
level and
introducing performance development plans, succession
planning,
talent mapping
and so forth to make sure that we're
not only
trying to be as good as we can be, but positioning ourselves in the
future to be as good as we... to maintain that level of competence.
All right. New question from Arina Williams.
I wanted to ask you about those opportunities that you see, and we're sort
of in that part of the discussion now in
not only growing
the people that you're working with and serving, but also the revenue streams that
you have through the training and the certification.
What are the opportunities that you see?
What are the industries that around the world are emerging as industries that
need this sort of accreditation? And then what are the opportunities that you see
with technological advancement?
Yeah.
So there are a lot of opportunities that exist now that just
aren't being capitalized on. So, agencies that have their own
inspectorates that aren't statutory inspectorates, that could be
either
carved off and become-
What's an example of that?
So,
for example, vehicle inspection, the heavy vehicle, particularly
heavy vehicle certification at Waka Kotahi.
There's still different parts of WorkSafe.
We're working with hazardous substances at the moment, trying to get them on board,
but
it just kind of gets stuck in the middle.
There is
opportunities for, and not necessarily just to kind
of
removing
or kind of eliminating inspection capabilities within organizations and
especially those that have statutory inspection, but
actually using accreditation. So one example would
be mine inspection. We're all very
familiar with the Pike River tragedy,
and my understanding is that was because there just aren't enough mine
inspectors to go around.
Mm.
If you had an accredited inspection that wouldn't be doing the
statutory inspection role, it would allow that it would define the risk
scape and would be able to point statutory mine
inspectors
right at the
mines that they need to be most concerned about.
And then there's no cost
apart from the industry for that because there's the cost of the
inspection, the extra inspection to the mines, and then there would be the cost
of the accreditation to the inspection organizations.
Mm.
There's lots of different
opportunities across a wide variety of regulators.
Just a quick supplementary on
the how,
what is the proposition and interested in what Dr Vanessa Weinig was asking.
How do you decide between those professional bodies
and occupational licensing-
Mm
... and the kind of accreditation that you offer?
Because obviously you're working very closely with industry in this regard.
Yeah.
And many of the industries that you regulate have the strong professional bodies
which would see this as an occupational licensing issue, which they-
Yeah
... it's their domain.
Yeah.
But then there's the accreditation pathway which you operate.
How do you find that balance?
So there's two different layers there, and
one of the things that we look at in assessing the competence of an organization
are, are the people who are doing the work appropriately licensed?
Is their practicing certificate up
to date and so forth? These are the kinds of checks.
So
an area of our work is medical imaging services, and
we accredit pretty much all medical imaging services in New Zealand,
especially those that do the
radiology and CT, MRI scanning
in public and private. And the way that started was one private
sector organization got on board and thought, "This is a good idea,"
and with point of difference, and we can also be
assured, our board of directors can be assured that we're doing everything right.
And then others followed because they thought, "Oh, okay, we don't want to get them
to have that competitive advantage," or, "We see the value as
well."
But we don't
get into the issue of determining whether a
radiologist is competent. That's their college's
domain. So we do check that everything
is up to date, but we don't try
and kind of-Duplicate
what has already been done.
Mm-hmm. Just a different- Different, yeah. New one.
I want to ask you about the international trend of
synthesizing different standards around the world.
The New Zealand government has, say in the building sector, been interested in
synthesizing our standards with Australia. Are you interested in that?
What is your role in a system which is
meant to be helping productivity by
finding similarities of standards and then adopting those, rather than going
through a long process to develop the same, but New Zealand standard?
Yeah. So we work actively in the area of standards development.
Yeah.
We send people overseas at our own cost
to work on ISO standards, so particularly accreditation
standards, but other ISO standards too as required.
And because it's not just important for us as an
organization, it's important New Zealand has a voice in these standards
that we will then use, and to make sure that they are fit for us as well as
fit for other countries.
So we do that on behalf of Standards New Zealand, so we are essentially the
technical experts that do that. We
approached
Housing and Urban Development and Standards New Zealand about changing the
methamphetamine testing standard because it was misaligned with what
the current thoughts were around the correct
amounts of asbestos that
were acceptable within a dwelling.
So we're
embedded in that and we see real value in being able to do that, and to
make sure that the standards work for us as an organization, but to
make sure that they are
effective as well for us as a country.
Just new primary from Dr. David Wilson.
Yeah. This is sort of
following on a little bit from what Hamish was asking, drilling down into the value
for money
part of the process, because it's on both sides really, isn't it?
It's whether your clients believe they're getting value for money from the
accreditation-
Yeah
... or certification, and it's whether or not you believe you're actually providing
a service which has value for money, so what you're charging for it, et
cetera. And in some ways you're a monopoly.
So you've got a monopolistic, through legislation-
Mm-hmm
... position. So interested because most
of the movement at the moment is towards outcome
assessment and performance, and value for money is one of those.
So interested in the detail of what you did with your surveys and
how you actually are moving towards establishing that they are
getting good value for the service and so is the government.
And I have a supplementary to that as well.
So in terms of our value for money, so we do do the
client survey and we get a lot of good feedback out of that.
It's quite interesting because you'll see for something like quite a
heavily regulated area like building consent authorities-
Yeah
...
you'll see a comment that says, we ask, "Why did you become
accredited?" And one comment might say, "Because
it makes us..." These are actually quotes.
"Because it makes us a better business."
Yeah.
And then another might say, "Because the regulator made me." And
so different perspectives on the same thing.
But in terms of our value
for money, so our purpose is very much focused on
protecting the health and prosperity of New Zealand through what
we do.
And so we work really hard to try and assess
that. So the client survey we get scored, I think,
pretty highly-
That's good
... I would say. And we have all
kinds of ongoing checks on satisfaction and
we're constantly trying to get as much feedback as we can about what we're doing.
I
talked about an econometric study.
That study suggested if you took IANZ out of the
equation,
eliminate us right now, it'd be $2.5 billion
out of GDP, and our work touches on about
$50 billion worth of exports. So
we've talked about health and safety, but an important part of what we do
is this international side, and we are evaluated in the same way that
we evaluate other organizations.
We're evaluated against ISO 17011.
So in March next year, we will have an
international team coming through and just looking into every nook and cranny and
literally watching over shoulders as our people are assessing other
organizations and so forth.
Sorry, I'm wildly
digressing now.
So our value for money proposition is
something that we're always trying to be on top of
because it's important for us to be able to communicate that message, and it's
also really important for our people to
understand. And I think they all do. They're all on board with the purpose.
And it's what gets them to work each day.
Just want to, as my secondary, just follow up a little bit.
I'm glad you mentioned construction and housing and-
Yeah
... and aligned a little bit to where Arina was going in terms of
productivity.
I've had said to me on numerous occasions, not just from that industry sector, that
if you want to improve productivity in New Zealand, you get rid of the silliness
in health and safety. So the alignment with international standards I
think is really, really important here because are we perceived
internationally as too safety-ist?
Mm-hmm.
And what does that mean?
That's a very big question. I couldn't answer how we're perceived
internationally in that respect.
I know-That
if-
Yeah
... accreditation was used more widely,
it would vastly impact health and safety in New
Zealand because it's almost infinitely scalable, or
scalable to the extent that the populace and the
industry and so forth would allow it.
But you can, as long as there are people available to inspect,
then they can be accredited. And so
rather than just saying, "You've got to do what's reasonably practicable,
and with the benefit of hindsight we discover it wasn't
reasonably practicable, we're going to prosecute the heck out of you,"
you can start being actually more proactively
monitoring critical areas of health and
safety to ensure that it's
appropriate. But in terms of how we compare
internationally, I go to
international meetings with my accreditation peers, and
that's not
really something that is ... I know that there are areas, for example,
that we don't accredit that are accredited
overseas, but
that's-
A tough question.
Yeah, it is.
Rick, one of my jobs is also to keep an eye on time.
So
we have run out of time that we had with you, so thank you so much for answering.
Thank you.
And-
Yeah
... I can see that members have a lot of interest in the work that you do, so there
might be some written questions afterwards.
Yes. I'm happy to answer those.
Thank you so much.
Thank you very much for your time-
Thank you all very much
... and it's-
Have a great day
... we really appreciate the opportunity to speak with you about the work that we
do.
Yeah. Thank you.
Well done.
Thank you.
Thank
you so much for your time. I have two names here, so I have Stacey
Wood here. Yeah, thank you so much. And Suzy Stanley?
Suzy is joining us online today.
Oh, great.
But with me, I have Samantha Kennedy.
Samantha Kennedy. Thank you so much, and yeah, welcome to our select
committee. And we have one hour with you, so if you would
like to start with some opening remarks, and then we will have questions from
members.
Thank you.
So do we need to wait for Suzy? She can't see her online yet.
She does have the Zoom link.
Okay. So-
But we-
We are early are we?
Can begin a few-
Yeah, we can? Okay, great. Thank you.
Great.
Yeah.
Kia ora.
It's good to be here again. We were last here in August 2025.
So I won't
refresh you too much on who we are-
Yeah
... but I will just make some comments about the time
that we've had since then, which has been somewhat eventful.
The BSA is, as you know, an independent Crown entity, a
quasi-judicial tribunal, governed by a four-person board
which is supported by eight staff, including myself.
We exist to uphold standards in broadcasting, as the name suggests.
Our act, the Broadcasting Act 1989, defines our jurisdiction,
and that definition is programs. It's audio visual content
transmitted to the public by any means of telecommunication,
whatever that means.
Mm-hmm.
As you know, this is an issue that's been the topic of a lot of commentary in the
last six months. We do need legislative clarity to bring our act
into the present or replace it entirely.
Even our most traditional broadcasters are moving towards digital-only offerings,
and they need clarity as well.
So we agree that the current model needs to change,
but we do consider there's still an important role for a different and
modern media regulator.
In the meantime, we must apply our act as it is, and our
vision in doing that is freedom of expression without harm.
Simple to say, but not always simple to give effect to.
We've got three main areas of focus for achieving that vision, and the first is the
most public-facing, which is complaints determination, providing the public with a
free and independent complaints service about whether a broadcast
content has breached standards or not.
The second is oversight and development of those standards, which we do in a
co-regulatory way in consultation with broadcasters.
We commission independent research that informs how the standards are maintained
and applied and gives insight into what the public expect of us and of
broadcasters.
The third is engagement and education, so that's helping people to understand the
standards, promoting media literacy, and how to make informed
media choices, but also ensuring that the authority understands community
values and public expectations.Our
workload has fluctuated over the last few years, as it's always done.
So in the early years of COVID, we experienced near-record complaint
numbers, but these have fallen significantly in the last couple of years,
and we received only 90 complaints last year.
Mm.
It's too soon to say if this is a pendulum swing or a trajectory that's going to
continue. We suspect the latter.
And this is partly a marker of changes in how people consume media.
But it's also a marker of success. We find that when we invest more in our
non-complaints functions, unmerited complaints go down,
and breaches are now relatively rare because broadcasters understand the
standards so well. So our uphold rates are low, typically under
10%, where they were once closer to 30% or 40%.
Levies continue to decline, and we expect them to keep doing so,
given the fragility and the fragmentation of the media sector.
Levies are only paid by broadcasters with revenue over 500K
each year,
and that's based on a formula set out in the Act.
So there's relatively few entities over that threshold and many more smaller
broadcasters who don't pay levies.
In the last three years, we've received our first increases to crown funding
in 20 years, which has allowed us to weather
those falling levies and the effects of inflation.
And our expenditure is carefully managed, but it varies often
due to factors outside of our control, such as the number of appeals to the High
Court and
complaints workload.
After a period of over two years in which none of our decisions were appealed, we
did have four appeals in the relevant financial year.
One was the subject of a High Court decision last year upholding the authority's
decision in dismissing the appeal on all grounds, and we're still waiting on
decisions on the other appeals.
All of our appeals in recent years have been from complainants unhappy
that we have not upheld their complaint, not from broadcasters.
So while we wait for the outcome of the current media reform proposals, we
continue to make changes where we plan to operate efficiently in a
changing environment.
We last reviewed our code in 2022,
which we do periodically to make sure it's still relevant.
Unless there's legislative reform, we will soon need to review it again and see
whether it can be improved and adapted within the confines of the current Act.
Finally, we know that broadcasters still deal with many
more complaints than are ever referred to us, and they treat
complainants with
respect and care, which leads to relatively low
referral numbers. So I just want to acknowledge the resource and the effort that
goes into that.
We do think that ours has been a model of a successful co-regulatory
system, and that there's a lot that can be carried forward to a more modern
model.
So thank you for the chance to be here again.
I welcome any questions.
Thanks, Jacqueline. And carrying on, we have a question from Reuben
Davidson.
Thank you, Chair, and thank you for those opening remarks and comments.
Really good scene set.
I think that
two
references that you alluded to, one is the Broadcasting Standards Authority
and the other is 1989, the Broadcasting Act.
So two terms that are
not really fit for 2026 by lots of
arguments. And in fact,
the chair, Suzy, states in legislation that it's obsolete
and that the sphere of influence is shrinking.
So I guess my first question really is
why or does the BSA remain a fit-for-purpose
regulator,
and what specific harms is it
preventing that no other body can?
The
model is not fit for purpose. It does need to change.
We've acknowledged it and have acknowledged it for about 15 years now.
So, a complaint-driven model where complaints
come in and a decision comes out several months later about specific pieces of
content is not suitable for how people consume media
now.
It needs to be
different.
It's not our
job to decide what the best model is.
Yeah.
We have expertise and experience, but
what we can say is that the current model is out of date.
Mm-hmm.
However, there is still value in what
we do.
The kind of harms that
we have a role in preventing
are still hugely relevant to society now.
When we look at the likes of the recent social cohesion
report that's just come out, which identifies
consumption of a broad range of media,
the harms of social media,
the role that media plays in a healthy democracy,
and the effects of inaccurate
news.
Having an independent regulator gives people somewhere to turn
to get information about where they can get reliable,
accurate information about the world around them.
It has a role to play in the research that we do
that tells us the effect that media's having,
what people expect and
protecting communities who are more
vulnerable and won't necessarily be protected
by taking someone to court for defamation but may be protected
better by having an accessible, free service that they can go to when
they see something in broadcasting that harms them.
So do you want to-
Suck on that. So
Is what you're saying, part of what you're saying, that whilst
you don't have
any ability over
regulating online content,
you do have a substantial body of work from
over
many previous years that
charts the transition across and the harms or risks
of that, so essentially sort of an evidence body
to guide further regulation?
That's exactly right. The mediums may have changed,
but the message has not.
News media
has always accounted for the majority of our complaints as opposed to
entertainment media, and continues to do so, and news
media will always have an important role
however it's being delivered.
So all right.
You have a supplementary?
Yeah.
Okay.
Just following on from that.
Yeah.
There are five reform proposals currently,
five
media reform proposals. There's been no
decisions or progress, or no formal decisions taken on the regulatory
proposal. How many times has the minister met
with the BSA
board or chief executive around those proposals?
Good question. I think we have had three or four meetings since
the reform proposals
came out with the minister. We meet more regularly with the
ministry policy team.
And further sup on that.
Yeah.
You've received a letter of expectation from the minister?
We have, yes.
Yeah. Are there any
specific
expectations
in your work program delivered in that letter
around that reform or around potential reform?
Just to continue to work closely with the policy team as we have done
and provide our expertise and input where we can.
I don't think that's verbatim wording. Don't quote me, but that's the expectation.
And has there been any indication of the future role of the BSA or the
future shape?
No.
So yeah, I have a question here. So in your opening remarks here, you said
that the model is and
about the complaints,
if we look at the trend, are they telling us something?
Is it because
that BSA doesn't have that kind of role it used to have
before because lot of media consumption is shifting online?
Sorry, in terms of falling complaint numbers?
Yeah.
We have had-
Because people think that it's not in your jurisdiction, so the complaints are not
coming to you.
Yeah. Certainly, and the recent jurisdiction decision,
I think,
illustrated that quite well and that it was our first, and I think
people were surprised to hear that it was the first time we'd received a formal
complaint about an online broadcaster.
Certainly, it's not something that
people broadly thought was within our remit.
Mm-hmm.
But in terms of falling complaint numbers, they have
gone up and down a lot over the years.
So there's been quite a bit of fluctuation and when you look at political
events over that time, you can sort of link it to times of
increased
public anxiety or major world events going on.
And so there's been peaks and troughs over the years, but they
have been, in the last two years, lower and we
do think that that is at least partly tied to decreasing
viewers of linear television and listeners of radio.
But also,
there's a couple of other factors of our complaint system not being a
good tool for achieving results.
Mm-hmm.
Despite what people think, we can't actually shut broadcasters down.
We can't control what they say. We issue a decision several months later,
and even if it's upheld, a message has gone around the
world 10 times by then.
So I think fewer people complain to us, because it's not going to get the result
that they want.
There's also, from some people, we hear an unwillingness to complain
because of we're a public
body. Those decisions get published.
Unless there's a good reason for name suppression, a complainant's name goes out
there, and even if it's suppressed, sometimes it goes out there.
And people cop flak for that sometimes.
So
if something's going to go online with your name on it, perhaps you don't want to
make a complaint to a public body.
Mm-hmm.
And a further question. This is BSA versus the platform.
So just akin to understand that, how do you
see that platform is under your remit?
Is under our remit? By applying the wording of the act,
which explicitly refers to programs transmitted by radio
waves or other means of telecommunication.
So there's been quite a lot of analysis done on that, which I won't
take the time to repeat. But the
authority's legal reasoning is contained within its decision, and it's also
informed by external legal analysis that we received.
So then in that case, what do you
say about the Facebook commentators, those who do live streaming?
Yeah. If it was
easy, the act would be fine. Wouldn't need updating.
Mm-hmm.
But we have applied
a pragmatic and
purposive interpretation to the
definition in the act.
It needs to be transmitted to the public.
So, everyone tuning in at the same time is to be receiving the same
content, which differentiates it from
videos that you can choose and access at any time.
The act is silent on territoriality, which is
difficult. If we had the resources, maybe we'd
People would think we could take over the internet, but that's clearly not the
intention or the spirit or the purpose of the act.
So applied that lens in interpreting the
definition in a plain English and purposive way.
Okay. So then in that case, I'm interested to understand, how does
BSA apply to Parliament TV then?
Parliament TV files a liberty return.
Sorry?
Parliament TV files a liberty return each year and has always been subject to our
jurisdiction.
It's been always subject to. All right.
And then how can people make complaints about it?
What is the process to make a complaint about Parliament TV then?
To make a complaint.
Yeah.
So our process is that for most complaints, unless it's a privacy breach,
complaints must go to the broadcaster first.
People can contact the authority if they're not sure how to contact a broadcaster,
and we'll do our best to assist. And then,
complaints are referred to us if a complainant's unhappy
with the broadcaster's response or doesn't receive a
response.
So that means the complaint should go to who is running the Parliament TV or to
Parliament, and then
sent to you BSA.
Yeah. I
can get you the contact details of the broadcaster.
Yes. And do you receive any complaints for Parliament TV?
No.
You've never received any complaints?
I don't believe so.
Okay. Thank you. And we go back to Ruben Devon.
Just some stats on the area that you've been exploring, Madam Chair.
Do you have any sense of
the cost implications of the
current platform
or BSA investigation or complaint process for the platform?
Yes.
It's obviously taken up a lot of staff time internally.
Not just the complexity of the complaint itself, but the
ensuing communications that we've received,
OIA requests, abusive emails, et cetera.
It all takes time to deal with.
In terms of external cost, I think there was
no expenditure obviously within the relevant financial review period because we
didn't receive the complaint until after that.
But
it's also do we include expenditure that
we've had over the years on the act and the application to
new media entities as they emerge, because this isn't the first time that we've had
to consider this.
Mm-hmm.
But we have spent less than $50,000 in the last
10 years on external legal advice on jurisdiction issues.
So that gives you a bit of a flavor.
We do a lot with a little.
Yeah. And just to
probe a little more around that distinction between online content that can
be
called broadcast and online content that can't.
So am I right in your previous answers, were you suggesting
that a live stream would be seen as a
broadcast sitting on a digital platform, but pre-produced
content sitting on a digital platform available for consumption when a
viewer chooses wouldn't be seen as a broadcasting standards authority
consideration?
And also, I think you mentioned about the continuity.
You mentioned about the continuity as well in your response.
Continuity?
Yeah. And just adding that to Ruben's question.
Yeah. So there isn't a
one to two sentence definition I can give you that will answer
every case scenario.
But broadly, yes.
So-
If people are choosing episodes from a menu, probably out.
Yeah.
If people are tuning in and listening or watching whatever's on,
probably in. But
clearly not intended to capture individual random
TikToks or Facebook, people's personal things that are not
meant to be for-
So
then a couple more questions about that because with
news and current affairs content that is broadcast in New Zealand, some of that is
live, some of it's pre-recorded.
So it's less about live and pre-recorded versus is it
being streamed. Because most broadcast
television isn't live, right? It's all been pre-produced before.
Yeah.
You would know.
But it's about are you clicking a button to tune into a
station or a channel or a website and hearing or seeing what everyone else is
seeing at the same time.
So then the next part of that would be that
some news and current affairs content in New Zealand, Q&A would be
a really good example of this,
will run a
pre-produced broadcast program with an interview, and then
they'll
host the full interview-
Mm-hmm
... as a selectable piece of content on their platform.
Yeah.
No pun intended with on their digital platform.
By the definition that
you're suggesting, that would be excluded from the jurisdiction of the
BSA, but the post-produced version of that content wouldn't
be.
Yeah. Look, there has always been a lot, well, at least since the
internet began being capable of hosting media, there's been
inconsistencies. So for example, under the preexisting
scenario, we could take a complaint about a promo
ad for a program
that, so the promo runs on TV 2, but it's for a program that's
showing on TVNZ Plus only. So we could take a complaint about the
promo, but not the actual show because it's on demand.
The Media Council and ourselves have areas of overlap and
fragmentation, so there's cases where we'll get a complaint about a RNZ
spoken word article on the radio, and they'll get a complaint about the written
writeup, and sometimes there's different decision outcomes because
the headline on the written article substantially changes the
meaning of the message. So
there have been gaps in fragmentation since our act
began, but they're only getting worse.
Mm-hmm.
39 minutes.
Just a new supplementary.
You mentioned
the trending complaints that you've been seeing, and the unwillingness
to complain. I think you're describing a situation where most New Zealanders,
a vast majority, want
a civil public discourse,
and yet they are not complaining to you because they're getting used to this
outrage that they're seeing constantly.
What are you learning from the complaints that you've received this year as opposed
to perhaps 10 years ago, when there were more people
emailing you about their views about something that they had heard was
offensive, and how do we renegotiate that at present?
How are you seeing the trends and the information that you're
receiving from members of the public, and turning that into guidance
that is useful to us to navigate that?
Yeah.
Some really deep questions there.
And I think
thinking about how we promote greater social
cohesion and
get away from the toxic discourse online
is not something we're fully equipped
to deal with. But
we know that our broadcasters are dealing with even more
abusive and harassing and just unacceptable
communication than we are, and that they've had to put safety measures in place to
protect their staff.
That's what I said.
We see it in complaints, in the number of complaints that
are
not, "This broadcast was factually
wrong, but I didn't agree with it, so it must be
biased." Or
people not wanting to
have viewpoints out there that they disagree with.
So I think that that is influenced by the algorithmic nature of what a
lot of people are consuming. But that's speculation.
We haven't done deep research on that element.
We did do some research on public trust in media, which we published last
year, which broadcasters have told us they found useful and
supports similar and adjacent research that they've done
themselves. And it did reinforce that
people are often aware of this notion that
they are bringing their own biases to how they consume media, but that
doesn't stop them having them .
But they still
want accuracy, balance, and fairness in the news
that they consume, and they see that as important and drivers of
trust.
Could I just-
Can I sup on that?
Yeah.
Hold on. No, you carry on with your sup.
Oh, thank you.
You describe a situation where most broadcasters in New Zealand know what the
standards are. But I think most New Zealanders would think that
they're seeing more outrageous, more inflammatory content
in their traditional media and their social media.
Mm-hmm.
Why is this growing divide between what
most New Zealanders would expect as sort of a more civil discourse and
their ability to raise that with
someone, with an ability to put a complaint through to something that would
then be able to deal with that?
Yeah, look,
broadly, our traditional broadcasters do apply the
standards well, and even though there's often quite a lot
of commentary around how the news is told, I think
it's easier for that noise to be louder
now. Our statistics
don't indicate that that is a demonstration of falling
standards.
Mm-hmm.
We do get complaints about the news.
We have upheld less than 10% of complaints in the last few
years. Broadcasters are generally doing a good job, but there's a
lot of criticism out there.
Mm-hmm.
From all ends of the spectrum. It's not
limited. We get as many complaints about
traditional media being biased to the left as we do to the right.
When you compare our organizations to
what Australia is doing,
in living social media platforms, more of a move to
providing a useful service to media, which also need this, because you describe a
situation where they receive the complaints, they receive the abuse.
If you had something else that was the independent arbiter, perhaps it
would be really valuable for them.
How do you internationally benchmark the kinds of
complaints that you're receiving and the kinds of decisions that you can make?
It's tricky because we don't have a directly comparable
system overseas, and it is so nuanced that
we follow what's happening in Australia, we follow what's happening
in the UK with Ofcom,
and have connections at those regulators that we sort
of try and look for commonalities.
But
the regulatory systems are different.
Australia has a similar issue to us in their legislation, which
they've
put a band-aid on with a temporary legislative mechanism to
exclude internet broadcasts, but
which will require a more permanent solution at some
point.
The UK's obviously got a massively
well-resourced regulator that's attempting to do a lot of new
things in online spaces,
but facing big challenges in doing that as well.
Mm-hmm.
A supplementary question.
Yeah. Thank you. And you touched on it briefly,
public confidence in our mainstream media is probably at an all-time low.
What role does the BSA play in actually increasing that
trust and confidence for
the general public? Probably a lot of these broadcasters probably push things
right to the limit.
What role does the BSA play in actually increasing public confidence?
So
the most recent research indicates we might have-Come
past the lowest point and be on an uptick, but it's too early
to tell if that's a long-term trend.
We support trust in media by upholding the
standards, publishing our decisions, which tell
people when the standards haven't been met.
Our research,
both our internally-facing research, which tests our decisions
with the public to see if they agree with where we've got to on different
issues,
and the externally-facing research, like our public trust in media
research, which helps broadcasters to know that they are doing everything they can
to move the dial on that.
But while there are things that media
can do and should do to maintain trust,
there are also factors that are undermining trust in media
that are not the media's responsibility.
Online discourse
is not always helpful. So it's a complex problem with
no silver bullet. But our role, as an
independent regulator, is to identify when the standards haven't been
met, support broadcasters to uphold those standards, and almost
provide a
credibility badge. We are media that is subject to a regulator, so
if we get it wrong, you can do something about it.
Supplementary, Brendan.
Yeah, thank you.
Just to
seek out a little more information around that idea of
where complaints come from. And sometimes,
given you've talked about quite extensive monitoring and research that you've
done in and around how this all shifts and moves.
So the question here really is around the online amplification of
offense or
dissatisfaction with broadcast media content being the
catalyst for formal complaints that do fit within the
current,
albeit not fit for purpose, potentially, remit of the BSA.
So someone, for example, posting on Facebook about something they don't like
that they saw on the news, and then that pushes a number of
complaints to the broadcaster and potentially, more formally, to you.
Do you monitor that? And if so, how do you monitor that?
Short answer, no. We don't have the resources to
monitor social media,
so we don't
investigate where our complaints are coming from. We take them at face value.
Broadcasters may be doing more of that themselves,
but I doubt that they have the resources either.
So if you were to see
an influx of complaints about a specific
incident or
content-
Yeah
... do you have any mechanism to
reverse look at that? Like if you got
100 complaints about one thing, it'd be very unusual.
There's no trigger point at which point you would
work backwards to find out where that's coming from?
It's not something that's been an issue for us.
And if
we have had a number of emails about a specific issue, it's usually pretty
clear where that's come from. It'll either be a media
article about us, which we do monitor media mentions of
us,
or it will be a
prominent
critic.
So
then, the awareness is only anecdotal then?
It's not recorded or monitored formally.
We
do monitor media discussions, but we don't go looking
for
every Facebook post about the broadcasting standard authority.
Yeah. Okay. I think Suzy wants to say something. I see your hand up, Suzy.
Thank you very much. And I'm sorry I can't be there, but it was the change of
date. Look, I think it's an interesting question.
We do
see trends and,
as you'll all be aware, the controversial issues around Gaza,
Palestine, Israel, and sometimes we do
see
similar complaints as Stacey has said,
and they could look like they've been generated from a group.
So we certainly keep a record of that.
But there's no consistent
sort of complaint mechanism. We also occasionally have
seen, and of course, we also are responsible
in an election year,
fair to say, Stacey, that we have seen occasionally a group who
have got together and wanted to petition, if you like, one particular
point of view, and they stand out because we get so few.
So we certainly keep a record of those.
But as Stacey says, it's not an online search
that we do or monitor. We simply don't have the resources.
But we can see trends. As I've said to the select committee
previously, clearly during the COVID issues, and I'm sure you all who
were there experienced them, there were
quite a number of small groups who made very
similar complaints and repeatedly.
So that's probably as far as we can go. So I hope that helps.
Yeah, it does. Just a final
clarification question on that. Is there a resource or cost implication
to that for the BSA?
To?
To
campaigns, not to overstate it, but campaigns
of directing people towards
engaging in a formal complaint process about specific content
Well, if I could answer that. Well, the cost will be that it's just a lot
more work. On the other hand, we would triage them anyway, and we would look
at, essentially, if someone's complaining about the same
matter, you would take them under that one complaint.
So,
on the other hand, you'd just say, "We're doing our job.
We've got complaints, so we're dealing with them." But you
can sift through them. Our team are very good at triaging them and
saying, "Well, these are really the same complaint from five
different people." And so, it would be fair to say, Stacey, we would deal with it
that way.
Correct. Yeah. It hasn't really been a huge issue in our formal complaints
space, though.
Because they have to go through broadcasters first,
and that usually whittles down the numbers.
And we only had 90 formal complaints last year, so fairly not getting
hundreds on-
Yeah
... one issue.
Okay.
Thank you. So that kind of is a supplementary, but also is related
to questions I asked before about Parliament TV.
So do you then expect that Parliament TV should be
stating their usual
statement that usually broadcasters do about the complaint process?
Because I haven't seen Parliament TV doing that.
Have you seen Parliament TV doing that, and how do you
I haven't seen Parliament. I don't watch Parliament TV very often.
Oh, I just-
I'm not aware if they're-
Better than Shortland Street
... doing the broadcaster publicity notices.
We-
Hear
... made a decision a few years ago not to actively monitor
broadcaster publicity notices because we don't have a mechanism to enforce
compliance and we
had been facing increased resource constraints in the last few years,
so we've
operated on a honesty system.
But then how
does
the public know that this process exists?
Through publicity notices-
Yes. Yes
... through our website, through broadcasters having an
obligation to tell complainants that they have a right to
refer complaints to us. So the act requires broadcasters to
have a public-facing complaints process and a method for
dealing with those, and to tell complainants that they have the
opportunity to refer to us if they don't
So in a way, it's then not a requirement
for the broadcaster to broadcast that statement
about how to make a complaint.
It is a requirement to
do that, but there's nothing in the act that gives us
any enforcement powers over that.
So then you say there's a requirement, but there is no enforcement.
It kind of is conflicting.
So the act says broadcasters
must do this.
But the act doesn't say if they don't, the authority can X, Y, and
Z.
So in what happened recently with BSA versus the
platform, do you expect platform to broadcast that kind of
statement about how to make a complaint?
I don't think that's a realistic expectation.
Okay.
Georgie Denzie. Thank you.
Kia ora. Thank you. This has been really informative.
I'm interested in performance, and I can see that performance on
all levels is doing really well, financial performance,
et cetera.
But I'm just thinking about
the future and
if there are changes in this space, what does that look
like for the future of financial performance and
your performance indicators across operations?
If there are changes in the legislation-
Well, I guess I'm saying if things don't change-
Mm-hmm
... if the legislation stays just as it is-
... how will that impact your performance?
Look, it's really difficult to predict.
Some of it's easier to predict than other aspects.
We can probably safely predict that levies
won't increase and are likely to decrease further.
Those levies are set in the act, so we can't change how much we charge or who we
charge.
But in terms of complaints numbers, we can probably predict they won't get
hugely higher. They may get somewhat higher than we've seen in the last couple of
years because those have been historically low numbers.
We haven't had a huge influx
suddenly of online complaints since
August,
October last year, when it became more publicly known
that we can accept those. So
remains to be seen how that will affect our workload.
Appeals are always an unpredictable aspect of our
workload. We went for about
two and a half years of having no High Court appeals and then had four come
at once. So,
that means that we have to then engage legal counsel to
assist the High Court in
determining those.
Thank you.
Okay. There's a supplementary from Ruben Davidson.
Yeah. Just on that levy question
and the financial performance question.
Because
online media streamers
are not paying any levy,
have you had any feedback from qualifying levy payers
about the fact that their levies are financing
the
legal complaints process for non-levy payers?
No. The levy system has always been
such that some broadcasters
pay more substantial levies than others, and that's not always reflective of the
numbers of complaints that they get.
It is a very simplistic formula, totally revenue
based.
You could beearning massive revenue and getting no complaints and
paying a big levy to subsidize the system.
Many of our smaller broadcasters have never, and will never, pay
a levy.
And hypothetically, if you were to
add online platforms in and they became levy payers,
you would have a sense, I would expect, of
the extent to which your levy capture would
increase.
We don't have a good idea of that yet, and we would need to work through
a process.
It's not our
assumption that we'd get suddenly a lot more levies due to the revenue
threshold that broadcasters need to cross before anything at all is
payable.
Mm-hmm.
So lots more work, but not necessarily any more levy.
Correct.
New primary, Huhana-Jones.
Yeah. It's a primary, but it sucks off your part, Madam Chair,
around community awareness and understanding of the role and
function of the Broadcasting Standards Authority, because
it's said that
you've achieved your community awareness goals for Maori community, but
Pacific and Asian we're still underperforming.
How do we even understand that you have that community awareness in
community? And then, what are the measures that you're putting in place
to achieve those with our Asian and Pacific communities?
Yeah. So we
do surveys every year or two and target specific
communities that we're trying to reach.
And
traditionally, it has been more difficult to engage with
communities that may not either consume a lot of broadcast
media anymore. We know that certain groups, young
people, Pasifika,
tend to get more media online than through linear.
So part of it's just due to audience behavior and expectations, but
also it's
reaching groups that our research and experience has
shown are less likely to complain to an institution like us.
So, if Pacific peoples have a complaint
about a broadcaster, they'll often try to resolve that within
the community rather than coming to us with it.
Mm-hmm.
And so that's fine. But we do want to make sure people know that we're here if
they do need us. So we do targeted engagement
with community groups, with specific broadcasters,
like Pacific Media Network, for example, to just make sure
that even if people don't want to complain to us, that they know that we
exist, that our resources exist, and that they can
reach us if they need to.
Mm-hmm.
Just to add on to that. I'm wondering about the demographics of your
engagement around community awareness.
Having sat with a few youth groups recently,
how we can target our young people to be more informed of their rights,
but then also the role and function of the Broadcasting Standards Authority
to support them in voicing concerns and
expectations around broadcasters.
Mm.
So sorry, what-
Yeah. What's your plan for young people?
What's our plan for young people?
How are you engaging our young people?
Yeah.
We
haven't done any specific research or targeted
engagement with rangatahi beyond we do
speak with a number of university classes who are studying things like media
policy or broadcasting.
But we also know that young people are
not big consumers of broadcast content.
So it's a bit of a balance of wanting to make
sure that we are protecting children's interests, which is one of our standards,
but also using our resources to address the communities that
are consuming the most broadcast content and are more likely to complain to
us. But we have done research in the past on children's interests
specifically, and
there are tools that we publicize around parental controls and
content,
so that people can make informed choices.
So even though we haven't done as much engagement as we
would if circumstances were different,
it is one of the standards, and so broadcasters are required to
uphold it. And there's been some decisions on that, where
things have been played at an inappropriate time, and that kind of
thing.
Just to follow on on that. You've made a comment around how it's those who are
most likely to complain.
Well, that's not young people usually.
No.
Yeah. Because they're disengaged and they don't know how to complain about
issues.
Yeah.
And it's more likely that it's an older population that like to lodge
complaints-
Absolutely
... from my experience.
But it's sort of like a rights
opportunity-
Yeah
... to gear up and empower, even if it is social media
campaigns or something-
Yeah
... coming from
And I know that we're not in the social media space,
but I know that the classification office has done a lot of important work in
that area around ensuring that people know
that they can complain if they see something online.
And that's work that I think is hugely valuable.
Mm-hmm. Suzy, you have your hand is up.
Yes, I can add to that, Stacy, that we also have a
loose partnership with Save the Children in New Zealand.
So I'm the chair of Save the Children, and
we have an education hub
for youth and for primary school because we're aware that teachers are extremely
busy, and it's a resource. And I know our communications
manager and Save the Children's communications manager have worked together.
So we have some information that's passed through,
and as you said, it's a rights issue, and Save the
Children is all about children's rights.
Kia ora.
I should just add that we've also produced a short media literacy resource
that we've circulated the schools to use as well.
A sup on this from Reuben Davidson.
Yeah, thank you. One of the resources I saw, either in the annual report or on
the website, was a series of
resources in other languages to make sure that people could follow the complaints
process.
What I don't recall seeing, and I just may not have seen it, was
specific resources for people who are
English language speakers but may have accessibility issues.
Mm.
Are those are resources you've got as well?
So we have done a little bit of work in making our website more
accessible by providing Word
versions of written resources. However, we're
doing a project over this current
financial year and the next to improve the accessibility of our
website. We did an accessibility audit last
year, which showed room for improvement, so we're putting those
improvements into place over the
next six to 12 months.
Mm-hmm.
Just to sup off that briefly.
A supplementary, Honore.
And just for our-
You have a new prime
... disabled community,
what does that look like in terms of the audit for your website and your engagement
with those with disabilities?
Yeah. So we've had
an expert accessibility audit done for us to
show us exactly what needs to be changed to make it easier for
people who are using screen readers or who have hearing or vision
impairments.
And we
will be doing things like making the menus stay dropped down when you
drop them down, that kind of technical improvement.
Long overdue, but we've sort of been hesitant to do major work on the website
knowing that it may not be needed for much longer.
But
we have to proceed as though we're going to be around for
the foreseeable.
Mm-hmm. Dr. Davidson.
Yeah, I'll get one shot at this, so excuse me while I frame this.
I'm really interested in what you've said today.
You started off talking about the fragility and fragmentation in digital
media, and I think it relates a little bit to where Huhana was going
here, the kind of disengagement in mainstream media and
broadcasting. And you said that's not actually high with youth.
Mm-hmm.
So that's one issue
which kind of goes against the grain in terms of how we're defining broadcasting.
And the Broadcasting Standards Authority, the name's on the tin.
So defining what broadcasting is, I think, is obviously a real challenge for
you.
And you mentioned earlier that both the law and the model that you're
operating under are not fit for purpose,
and
you need a more modern model. And you've got a team of eight
with a limited budget.
And right in the middle of all of this is huge moral and ethical dilemmas
with digital media and broadcasting, if we can call it that.
You mentioned also the social cohesion report and the trust in social
media. All these things are swirling around.
So there's two questions here. One's a look to the future, if I'm allowed that,
and the second is, how on earth do you navigate the moral and
ethical dilemmas of the complaints that you already have?
So maybe answer that one first and then come back to what the future might
look like for us to consider in how we address those things.
How do we navigate the complaints that we have?
Yeah, through moral and ethical dilemmas that obviously come up.
Such as a complaint that a program has
breached an ethical standard?
Yeah.
Well, we've got 37 years of experience doing that
now, and the standards have evolved over time, but there's a pretty
solid body of precedent,
as well as research we do every year to check that our
finger on the pulse is still
on the pulse
in terms of how the community interprets our standards and what they
expect from them. So that part of it
is
a challenging issue, but we are the expert
body at doing that, so we lean on our
expertise and experience.
As to the future,
if it was easier, it would be done already, right?
And countries around the world are grappling with what does sensible media and
social media regulation look like.
It's not the role of the existing independent regulator
to decide what the future should look like.
We can only provide our expertise and advice
to those who do have the responsibility for making those decisions.
So in some ways, the-
Supplementary
... the discussion with the complaint
with the platform, which is an online digital media
platform,
does this fit within the broadcasting definition, et cetera, et cetera, is
kind of almost like a litmus test for this because that will be testing
your expertise, which has firmly been in mainstream media and
broadcasting, and now you've opened up a whole new area.
Mm-hmm.
So
I guess I'm asking how you're going with
that in your own team. It's like that's a huge thing to take on.
It is and it isn't. There's always been a huge variety
of media within broadcasting, and context has always
been a factor in every decision. So what's
acceptable to an audience of one program will not be
acceptable to an audience of another program, and it might be due to the time of
the day or the style of program. It's
the audience that it's targeting.
So we-If you read some of our
decisions on, for example, talk back shows, there'll
often be discussion of what the audience will expect from this presenter
of this show.
And so, in that sense, it's just another show,
and it helps that
when you click on the button, it does what you expect a TV or a radio to do, and it
plays you the show. And seeing and hearing media is not a novel concept.
But
let's not pretend it's simple.
Yeah.
Yeah. Okay.
Just a-
Supplementary
Thank you. Yeah, just to sup on that point.
Other than
additional resource, which arguably you'd need if you were going to be monitoring
or managing complaints about online content,
do you think there is any better
placed
entity or organization in New Zealand to do what you do currently for
online content?
Not currently.
And I've got a new primary as well.
Actually, I would like to probe a little bit on that question as a
supplementary. So, we have already heard that the younger
audience doesn't engage much with BSA in
one of the previous conversations.
And we also see that you have limitations in terms of your
powers, the way they extend to some channels.
So coming to that,
how do you then justify
BSA's existence?
How do we justify it?
Yeah.
How do we-
Because I don't understand the model.
But is it just the
thing of changing the model, or like overall, how do you
justify BSA's existence?
Well, may I?
Yes. Suzy, please come in.
Yeah. Well, with all respect, I'm not sure it is necessary for us to
justify. We're a creature of statute, and we do the job
that we're asked to do. I think we have
views from our expert position and all
around the world
that we're all grappling, or every government around the
world, I think, is grappling with what should a modern
regulator look like. So we are not sitting there
justifying our existence. We've been saying for quite a
number of years something needs to be done, and there have,
as you'll be fully aware, numerous regulatory
reviews.
But nothing concrete has landed at this stage.
Okay. Reuben Davidson.
Thank you.
Just to come back to a point that
was discussed earlier, and it was around
staff protection and staff security in the context of media
environments and organizations.
And
I guess I'm not wanting to sound alarmist, but
given the potential to step into regulating the online space, where
we know that content can be a bit more extreme, can be a bit more
radical, people can be a bit more active and empowered
by it.
Have you, over
your time so far and looking into the future, is that
something you have to actively consider for the BSA as an
organization for its staff?
Yes, and I think every
public institution has probably
given some serious thought to that under our health and
safety obligations.
So yes is the answer.
And would you see that
risk increasing if you were to-- or have you seen any noticeable
impact since you've been pursuing the
complaint with regards an online platform as opposed to a broadcast?
Yeah, there's-
Yes
... certainly been a noticeable
tenor of email communications
and such. And we've had to manage
the safety and wellbeing of the staff.
So, yeah, reluctant to go into too much detail about the
contents of those communications, but you can probably, being a
public facing individual yourself, imagine
what they're like.
Suzy, you are-
Yeah, and I can add that not only staff,
I personally and our board have received
an increased number of fairly abusive emails.
But regularly, also, if we don't uphold or we do
uphold a complaint, we usually get the benefit of someone's advice
following that. And very rarely
is it complimentary. But there's been a marked increase,
as indeed there was, as I'm sure all of you experienced as well
during COVID,
just a propensity to be relatively abusive.
So Suzy, just to clarify, when you say abusive emails-
Yes
... you could elaborate on that? Is it people just saying, "Oh, we don't need you.
It's not in your job description."
Well-
Get lost
... they say something like that. But they say quite a lot of other things that
start with F and C, and
what are we doing, and who do I think I am, and they send them to my work
email. Yep.
And
So yeah, quite a considerable number.
Yeah. Okay,
questions, members?
Looks like oh, David.
Well, just sorry, one-
Yeah. Go for it
... supplementary, and it's following on a little bit from my line of questioning.
So are you saying that you've actually got ethical or ethicist
expertise within the BSA?
Very quick response, please, because we are just about to, yeah, run out of time.
I'm not sure exactly what that would look like.
Our authority members are applying
standards that could be said to have ethical underpinnings.
But it's a judicial process, not an-
Yeah
... ethical judgment.
Yeah. Perfect.
Okay. All right. Looks like, yeah, there are no more questions for now.
There might be some written questions that, if members will think of, they will
come to you later on.
Sure.
Thank you so much-
Thank you
... to both of you, and thanks to you, Suzy, as well, for
Thank you very much. Thank you.
Very good.
Thanks very much.
Bye-bye.